Add Redis Blog Post (#479)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-07-10-trino-fest-2023-redis.md

---
layout: post
title: "Redis & Trino - Real-time indexed SQL queries (new connector)"
author: "Allen Terleto, Julien Ruaux, Ryan Duan"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/Redis.png
show_pagenav: false
---

Ever since the pandemic, the world has changed. The need for a digital first
economy rose dramatically during the lockdowns. It has become clear that

> digital's impact on future businesses will be more and more important. As Redis'

Reviewer: I think we can probably scrap these first two sentences and bring the scope in a little bit. You're kind of burying the lede by starting with such broad statements.

Field CTO Allen Terleto said during their talk from [Trino Fest 2023]({%
post_url 2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}), "In a digital first economy, data
is the lifeblood of the organization, which makes the databases the heart of

> enterprise architectures". Redis, one of the most popular open source projects,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enterprise architectures". Redis, a popular open source project,
```

> enterprise architectures". Redis, one of the most popular open source projects,

Reviewer: I don't think "one of the most popular" means much. Just explain what it is, and if you want to hype it up, say, "it's **a** popular open source project."

> is an in-memory data structure store, used as a distributed, in-memory key–value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is a distributed, in-memory key–value
```

> database, cache and message broker, with optional durability. In their talk,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
database. It includes a cache and message broker and optional durability. In his talk,
```

> Allen details the unification of Redis and Trino and demonstrate Redis' new

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allen demonstrates Redis' new
```

> connector for Trino can push down advanced queries and aggregations while

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connector for Trino. It can push down advanced queries and aggregations while
```

> leveraging Redis' unique in-memory secondary indexing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
leveraging Redis' unique in-memory secondary indexing. As a result performance with the new connector is much higher.
```

<!--more-->

{% youtube JjBtZ26IHYk %}

## Recap

> Redis is an open source, in-memory, noSQL database, which natively supports a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redis is an open source, in-memory, NoSQL database, that natively supports a
```

> variety of data structures and data models each natively designed for utmost

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
variety of data structures. Redis is designed for utmost
```

performance and high throughput use cases across different types of workloads.
Redis is widely known for being the fastest data store in the market with sub
millisecond performance, its ease of use, and being a multi-model database.

> Redis is able to map relational tables to a key value database by adding a key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redis is able to map relational tables to a key-value database by adding a key
```
Same applies elsewhere.

> Redis is able to map relational tables to a key value database by adding a key

Reviewer 2: be consistent about how you use "key value" or "key/value" or "key-value" across the post please

value pair as a hash attribute for each column. However, how can you search for
a certain key in a way that scales well in high throughput databases? Redis has
a unique way to deal with this problem: secondary indexing and Redis Search.

> Redis Search enables acquiring secondary indexing and full text search allowing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redis Search enables secondary indexing and full text search allowing
```

also maybe "full-text" ?

> Redis Search enables acquiring secondary indexing and full text search allowing
> Redis to support multi-field queries, aggregations, and much other capabilities.

Reviewer: This sentence needs some help. Suggesting a couple immediate edits, but maybe consider scrapping and re-writing. And remember, "and many others" is usually a transparent sign that you don't know what else to say unless you've already got a list of 4+ things.

```suggestion
Redis Search enables acquiring secondary indexing and full text search allows
Redis to support multi-field queries, aggregations, and many other capabilities.
```

As Allen says, "Redis Search will be at the heart of our new integration with
Trino and game-changing better performance at scale to the existing Redis Trino
connector". In addition, Redis supports a native data model for JSON documents,
allowing you to store, update, and retrieve JSON values in a Redis database like
other Redis data types. It also works with Redis Search to let you index and
query JSON documents.

The syntax for Redis Search is a bit different from traditional SQL syntax, so

> they have a Redis Trino connector that lets you easily integrate with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they have a Redis-Trino connector that lets you easily integrate with
```
We should expand on this. There is _already_ a Redis connector in Trino. They're contributing an improved, much faster, more reliable rewrite of the connector to replace it.

> visualizations frameworks and platforms that support JDBC compatible databases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
visualizations frameworks and platforms that support Trino.
```

for being the fastest data store in the market with sub millisecond performance,
its ease of use, and being a multi-model database. Redis is able to map
relational tables to a key-value database by adding a key-value pair as a hash
attribute for each column. However, how can you search for a certain key in a
way that scales well in high throughput databases? Redis has a unique way to
deal with this problem: secondary indexing and Redis Search.

Redis Search enables secondary indexing and full-text search, which allows Redis
to support many features such as multi-field queries, aggregations, exact phrase
matching, numeric filtering, geo-filtering, and vector similarity semantic
search on top of text queries. As Allen says, "Redis Search will be at the heart
of our new integration with Trino and game-changing better performance at scale
to the existing Redis Trino connector". In addition, Redis supports a native
data model for JSON documents, allowing you to store, update, and retrieve JSON
values in a Redis database like other Redis data types. It also works with Redis
Search to let you index and query JSON documents.

> The syntax for Redis Search is a bit different from traditional SQL syntax, so

Reviewer: To clarify - there is _an_ existing Redis connector in Trino, but Redis did not make it. The connector that they have made and published already is the new and improved one, and it is publicly available. But it is not part of Trino already, and they're going to contribute it so it comes built-in.
